SSE-C encryption backups (#80336)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/oadp-ssec-encrypted-backups.adoc

// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-mcg.adoc
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-ocs.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-ssec-encrypted-backups_{context}"]
= Creating a OADP SSE-C encryption key for additional data security

{aws-first} S3 now applies server-side encryption with Amazon S3 managed keys (SSE-S3) as the base level of encryption for every bucket in Amazon S3.

Note that {oadp-first} encrypts data by using SSL/TLS, HTTPS, and uses the `velero-repo-credentials` secret when transferring the data from the cluster to storage.

Therefore, it is important to include an additional layer of encryption to prevent backed-up data from being exposed if you lose your AWS credentials or they are stolen.

The _velero-plugin-for-aws_ provides several additional encryption methods. You should review its configuration options and consider implementing additional encryption.

Server-side encryption with customer-provided keys (SSE-C) gives you the ability to store your own encryption keys. This provides additional security if your AWS credentials become exposed.

[WARNING]
====

> It is important to secure cryptographic keys in a secure and safe manner. Encrypted data and backups will not be recoverable in the absence of the encryption key.

Author: Not sure about the first "secure" here. Maybe "Be sure to store cryptographic keys..."

====

.Prerequisites and known issues

> 

Author: Was "Prerequisites/known issues" -- Should this be a first step of the procedure?

> You might receive `credentials not found` errors. To avoid this issue you can create a workaround by adding a `volumeSnapshot` configuration to your `DPA` without specifying a credential as in the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You might receive `credentials not found` errors. To avoid this issue, you can create a workaround by adding a `volumeSnapshot` configuration to your `DPA` without specifying a credential as in the following example:
```

> .Prerequisites and known issues
> 
> You might receive `credentials not found` errors. To avoid this issue you can create a workaround by adding a `volumeSnapshot` configuration to your `DPA` without specifying a credential as in the following example:
> 
> [source,yaml]
> ----
>  snapshotLocations:
>   - velero:
>       config:
>         profile: default
>         region: <region>
>       provider: aws
> # ...

Reviewer 2: I think this section should be moved after

/credentials  when either
`dpa.spec.backupLocations[].velero.credential` or `dpa.spec.snapshotLocations[].velero.credential`
is not specified.

Revision:

```suggestion
.Prerequisites and known issues

To use SSE-C functionality of velero-plugin-for-aws plugin, OADP needs to mount a secret containing your SSE-C key.

To make OADP mount secret to velero pod, you will need to use a default secret name for AWS which is `cloud-credentials` and you will leave empty `dpa.spec.backupLocations[].velero.credential` or `dpa.spec.snapshotLocations[].velero.credential`. This known issue will be solved in the future as part of https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/issues/7767

In the procedure section, we have an example of backupLocations without credentials specified which would trigger OADP secret mounting.

If you need backupLocations to have credentials name other than `cloud-credentials`, you will have to add a snapshotLocation like below which do not contains a credential name, meaning it will use `cloud-credentials` as secret for taking snapshots.

Here is an example snapshotLocation in dpa without credentials specified.
[source,yaml]
----
 snapshotLocations:
  - velero:
      config:
        profile: default
        region: <region>
      provider: aws
# ...
```

====
+
The installation is complete, and you can back up and restore OpenShift resources. The data saved in AWS S3 storage is encrypted with the new key, and you cannot download it from the AWS S3 console or API without the additional encryption key.

.Verification
The purpose of this test is to verify that you cannot download the encrypted files without the inclusion of an additional key.

. Create a test file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ echo "encrypt me please" > test.txt
----
. Upload the test file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws s3api put-object \
  --bucket <bucket> \
  --key test.txt \
  --body test.txt \
  --sse-customer-key fileb://sse.key \
  --sse-customer-algorithm AES256
----
. Try to download the file, this should fail because the file is now encrypted with an additional key. In either the Amazon web console or the terminal, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ s3cmd get s3://<bucket>/test.txt test.txt
----
. Download the file with the additional encryption key by running the following commands:

> +

Author: @anarnold97 OCP is almost sure to ask me to make each code block a separate step, but I can't figure out a lead-in for the second command. The source material also treats these two commands as a single step. https://hackmd.io/nWTqKj4dRxiU3PCuAKtYuQ  Thoughts?

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-aws.adoc
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-azure.adoc
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-gcp.adoc
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-mcg.adoc
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-ocs.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-ssec-encrypted-backups_{context}"]

> = Creating a OADP SSE-C encryption key for additional data security

Author: Doh.

{aws-first} S3 now applies server-side encryption with Amazon S3 managed keys (SSE-S3) as the base level of encryption for every bucket in Amazon S3.

> Note that {oadp-first} encrypts data by using SSL/TLS, HTTPS, and uses the `velero-repo-credentials` secret when transferring the data from the cluster to storage. To avoid backup data from being exposed if you lose your AWS credentials or they are stolen, it is important to include an additional layer of encryption.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
{oadp-first} encrypts data by using SSL/TLS, HTTPS, and uses the `velero-repo-credentials` secret when transferring the data from the cluster to storage. To protect backup data in case of lost or stolen AWS credentials, [you must???] apply an additional layer of encryption.
```

Trying to use slightly more direct language in my suggestion.

I'm unfamiliar with what we support vs. recommend here, so is this a "must" or something else?

> The _velero-plugin-for-aws_ provides several additional encryption methods. You should review its configuration options and consider implementing additional encryption.

Reviewer 3: Verify the need to italicize this. It wouldn't typically be per ISG. Also, awk, but I believe the currently italicized term would need to be an adjective with this construction, so:

* The velero-plugin-for-aws plugin provides...
* velero-plugin-for-aws provides...

Server-side encryption with customer-provided keys (SSE-C) gives you the ability to store your own encryption keys. This provides additional security if your AWS credentials become exposed.

[WARNING]
====
Be sure to store cryptographic keys in a secure and safe manner. Encrypted data and backups cannot be recovered if you do not have the encryption key.
====

.Prerequisites

To use the SSE-C functionality of the `velero-plugin-for-aws` plugin, OADP needs to mount a secret containing your SSE-C key.

> * To make {oadp-short} mount a secret to the Velero pod at `/credentials`, use the following default secret name for AWS: `cloud-credentials` and leave `dpa.spec.backupLocations[].velero.credential` or `dpa.spec.snapshotLocations[].velero.credential` empty. This is a workaround for a known issue that will be solved in the future as part of https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/issues/7767 .

Author: @maxwelldb Not sure who.what PX is. Product experience? Could I solve the problem by just writing "This is a workaround for a known issue." ? I'm taking off now -- it's late here, but I gave your comments a quick skim and this is the only I need clarification on (famous last words... :) ).

> * To make {oadp-short} mount a secret to the Velero pod at `/credentials`, use the following default secret name for AWS: `cloud-credentials` and leave `dpa.spec.backupLocations[].velero.credential` or `dpa.spec.snapshotLocations[].velero.credential` empty. This is a workaround for a known issue that will be solved in the future as part of https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/issues/7767 .

Author: Thanks for the hard work on the review.

> * To make {oadp-short} mount a secret to the Velero pod at `/credentials`, use the following default secret name for AWS: `cloud-credentials` and leave `dpa.spec.backupLocations[].velero.credential` or `dpa.spec.snapshotLocations[].velero.credential` empty. This is a workaround for a known issue that will be solved in the future as part of https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/issues/7767 .

Reviewer 3: Yeah, Product Experience. Likely Eric Rich.

> * To make {oadp-short} mount a secret to the Velero pod at `/credentials`, use the following default secret name for AWS: `cloud-credentials` and leave `dpa.spec.backupLocations[].velero.credential` or `dpa.spec.snapshotLocations[].velero.credential` empty. This is a workaround for a known issue that will be solved in the future as part of https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/issues/7767 .

Author: @maxwelldb Just checked my previous PM with Eric -- He replied then: "no links to github"! is my mantra. So I went with "This is a workaround for a known issue." WDYT?

> * To make {oadp-short} mount a secret to the Velero pod at `/credentials`, use the following default secret name for AWS: `cloud-credentials` and leave `dpa.spec.backupLocations[].velero.credential` or `dpa.spec.snapshotLocations[].velero.credential` empty. This is a workaround for a known issue that will be solved in the future as part of https://github.com/vmware-tanzu/velero/issues/7767 .

Author: @sferich888 Would it be OK to link to the Jira involved? That is, to write "This is a workaround for a known issue: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3971."

[NOTE]
====
In the following procedure, there is an example of `backupLocations` which does not specify credentials. This example would trigger an OADP secret mounting.
====

* If you need `backupLocations` to have credentials with a different name than `cloud-credentials`, you must add a `snapshotLocation` like below which does not contain a credential name, meaning the `snapshotLocation` will use `cloud-credentials` as its secret for taking snapshots.

.Example `snapshotLocation` in a DPA without credentials specified.

[source,yaml]
----
 snapshotLocations:
  - velero:
      config:
        profile: default
        region: <region>
      provider: aws
# ...
----
.Procedure
. Create an SSE-C encryption key by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1 count=32 > sse.key
cat sse.key | base64 > sse_encoded.key
ln -s sse_encoded.key customer-key
----
. Create an OpenShift secret.

> .. If you are initially installing and configuring {oadp-short}, you can create the AWS credential and encryption key secret at the same time by running the following command:

Author: Yeah, that also fits my intent better.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-aws.adoc
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-azure.adoc
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-gcp.adoc
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-mcg.adoc
// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-ocs.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-ssec-encrypted-backups_{context}"]
= Creating a OADP SSE-C encryption key for additional data security

{aws-first} S3 now applies server-side encryption with Amazon S3 managed keys (SSE-S3) as the base level of encryption for every bucket in Amazon S3.

> Note that {oadp-first} encrypts data by using SSL/TLS, HTTPS, and uses the `velero-repo-credentials` secret when transferring the data from the cluster to storage.

Author: Done.

Therefore, it is important to include an additional layer of encryption to prevent backed-up data from being exposed if you lose your AWS credentials or they are stolen.

The _velero-plugin-for-aws_ provides several additional encryption methods. You should review its configuration options and consider implementing additional encryption.

Server-side encryption with customer-provided keys (SSE-C) gives you the ability to store your own encryption keys. This provides additional security if your AWS credentials become exposed.

[WARNING]
====

> Be sure to store cryptographic keys in a secure and safe manner. Encrypted data and backups will not be recoverable in the absence of the encryption key.

Author: Fixed.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc create secret generic cloud-credentials --namespace openshift-adp --from-file cloud=<path>/openshift_aws_credentials,customer-key=<path>/sse_encoded.key
----
.. If you are updating an existing installation, edit the values of the `cloud-credential` `secret` block of the `DataProtectionApplication` CR manifest, as in the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
data:
  cloud: W2Rfa2V5X2lkPSJBS0lBVkJRWUIyRkQ0TlFHRFFPQiIKYXdzX3NlY3JldF9hY2Nlc3Nfa2V5P<snip>rUE1mNWVSbTN5K2FpeWhUTUQyQk1WZHBOIgo=
  customer-key: v+<snip>TFIiq6aaXPbj8dhos=
kind: Secret
# ...
----
. Edit the value of the `customerKeyEncryptionFile` attribute in the `backupLocations` block of the `DataProtectionApplication` CR manifest, as in the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  backupLocations:
    - velero:
        config:
          customerKeyEncryptionFile: /credentials/customer-key
          profile: default
# ...
----
+
[WARNING]
====
Existing installations require you to restart the Velero pod to remount the secret credentials properly.
====
+

> The installation is complete, and you can back up and restore OpenShift resources. The data saved in AWS S3 storage is encrypted with the new key, and you cannot download it from the AWS S3 console or API without the additional encryption key.

Author: If actually wonder if we should refer to "OpenShift" rather than "OpenShift Container Platform" more often than not, but since the current document uses the latter pretty consistently, I made the change you suggested. The bigger question is for another day (and I might be dead wrong, too).

[id="oadp-ssec-encrypted-backups_{context}"]
= Creating an OADP SSE-C encryption key for additional data security

{aws-first} S3 applies server-side encryption with Amazon S3 managed keys (SSE-S3) as the base level of encryption for every bucket in Amazon S3.

{oadp-first} encrypts data by using SSL/TLS, HTTPS, and the `velero-repo-credentials` secret when transferring the data from a cluster to storage. To protect backup data in case of lost or stolen AWS credentials, apply an additional layer of encryption.

The velero-plugin-for-aws plugin provides several additional encryption methods. You should review its configuration options and consider implementing additional encryption.

You can store your own encryption keys by using server-side encryption with customer-provided keys (SSE-C). This feature provides additional security if your AWS credentials become exposed.

[WARNING]
====
Be sure to store cryptographic keys in a secure and safe manner. Encrypted data and backups cannot be recovered if you do not have the encryption key.
====

.Prerequisites

To use the SSE-C functionality of the `velero-plugin-for-aws` plugin, OADP must mount a secret that contains your SSE-C key.

> * To make {oadp-short} mount a secret to the Velero pod at `/credentials`, use the following default secret name for AWS: `cloud-credentials` and leave at least one of the following labels empty. This is a workaround for a known issue: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3971.

Reviewer 3: Could break this up further. If not:

```suggestion
* To make {oadp-short} mount a secret to the Velero pod at `/credentials`, use the following default secret name for AWS: `cloud-credentials`, and leave at least one of the following labels empty. This is a workaround for a known issue: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3971.
```

Reviewer 3: I believe that ISG prefers that introducing sentences lead right into the lists they describe. If you rewrite for that, you could move "This is a workaround..." after the two `**` items.

** `dpa.spec.backupLocations[].velero.credential`
** `dpa.spec.snapshotLocations[].velero.credential`

[NOTE]
====
In the following procedure, there is an example of a `spec:backupLocations` block that does not specify credentials. This example would trigger an OADP secret mounting.
====

> * If you need `backupLocations` to have credentials with a different name than `cloud-credentials`, you must add a `snapshotLocation`, such as the one in the following example, that does not contain a credential name, meaning the `snapshotLocation` will use `cloud-credentials` as its secret for taking snapshots.

Reviewer 3: It's clumsy, but all of these objects should be either generalized (`backupLocations` -> "backup locations") or turned into adjectives (`backupLocations` -> `backupLocations` objects/resources/lists/etc.

.Example `snapshotLocation` in a DPA without credentials specified.
[source,yaml]
----
 snapshotLocations:
  - velero:
      config:
        profile: default
        region: <region>
      provider: aws
# ...
----

.Procedure
. Create an SSE-C encryption key by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1 count=32 > sse.key
cat sse.key | base64 > sse_encoded.key

> ln -s sse_encoded.key customer-key

Reviewer 3: This is three commands.

Author: @stillalearner Did I explain the commands correctly?

----

> . Create an {product-title} secret.

Reviewer 3: Can be easier for reviewer readability of there are newlines between steps, but that is totally not a requirement.

> . Create an {product-title} secret.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Create an {product-title} secret:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  backupLocations:
    - velero:
        config:
          customerKeyEncryptionFile: /credentials/customer-key
          profile: default
# ...
----
+
[WARNING]
====
You must restart the Velero pod to remount the secret credentials properly on an existing installation.
====
+
The installation is complete, and you can back up and restore {product-title} resources. The data saved in AWS S3 storage is encrypted with the new key, and you cannot download it from the AWS S3 console or API without the additional encryption key.

.Verification
To verify that you cannot download the encrypted files without the inclusion of an additional key, create a test file, upload it, and then try to download it.

. Create a test file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ echo "encrypt me please" > test.txt
----
. Upload the test file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws s3api put-object \
  --bucket <bucket> \
  --key test.txt \
  --body test.txt \
  --sse-customer-key fileb://sse.key \
  --sse-customer-algorithm AES256
----

> . Try to download the file, this should fail because the file is now encrypted with an additional key. In either the Amazon web console or the terminal, run the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Try to download the file. In either the Amazon web console or the terminal, run the following command:
```

Then, add example output after the command or summarize what happens, i.e. "The download fails because the file is encrypted with an additional key."

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ s3cmd get s3://<bucket>/test.txt test.txt
----
. Download the file with the additional encryption key by running the following commands:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws s3api get-object \
    --bucket <bucket> \
    --key test.txt \
    --sse-customer-key fileb://sse.key \
    --sse-customer-algorithm AES256 \
    downloaded.txt
----
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat downloaded.txt

> encrypt me please

Reviewer 3: This should be its own step, e.g. "Read the file contents." -> example output -> "You can read the file contents because..."

----

> . You can run the same download call on the files backed up with Velero by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: If this is an exclusive action from the preceding step, use the ISG pattern.

Author: > If this is an exclusive action from the preceding step, use the ISG pattern.

@maxwelldb I'm not sure what you mean. I've rewritten this treating the Velero command as an alternative and then moving the "read" command to be after the Velero text. is that what you had in mind?

Author: @stillalearner Please check this section carefully.

// * backup_and_restore/application_backup_and_restore/installing/installing-oadp-aws.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="oadp-ssec-encrypted-backups_{context}"]
= Creating an OADP SSE-C encryption key for additional data security

{aws-first} S3 applies server-side encryption with Amazon S3 managed keys (SSE-S3) as the base level of encryption for every bucket in Amazon S3.

{oadp-first} encrypts data by using SSL/TLS, HTTPS, and the `velero-repo-credentials` secret when transferring the data from a cluster to storage. To protect backup data in case of lost or stolen AWS credentials, apply an additional layer of encryption.

The velero-plugin-for-aws plugin provides several additional encryption methods. You should review its configuration options and consider implementing additional encryption.

You can store your own encryption keys by using server-side encryption with customer-provided keys (SSE-C). This feature provides additional security if your AWS credentials become exposed.

[WARNING]
====
Be sure to store cryptographic keys in a secure and safe manner. Encrypted data and backups cannot be recovered if you do not have the encryption key.
====

.Prerequisites

> To use the SSE-C functionality of the `velero-plugin-for-aws` plugin, OADP must mount a secret that contains your SSE-C key.
> 
> * To make {oadp-short} mount a secret to the Velero pod at `/credentials`, use the following default secret name for AWS: `cloud-credentials`, and leave at least one of the following labels empty.
> 
> ** `dpa.spec.backupLocations[].velero.credential`
> ** `dpa.spec.snapshotLocations[].velero.credential`
> +
> This is a workaround for a known issue: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3971.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* To make {oadp-short} mount a secret that contains your SSE-C key to the Velero pod at `/credentials`, use the following default secret name for AWS: `cloud-credentials`, and leave at least one of the following labels empty:

** `dpa.spec.backupLocations[].velero.credential`
** `dpa.spec.snapshotLocations[].velero.credential`
+
This is a workaround for a known issue: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3971.
```

Mod docs guidelines require prereqs to be all bullets.

[NOTE]
====

> In the following procedure, there is an example of a `spec:backupLocations` block that does not specify credentials. This example would trigger an OADP secret mounting.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following procedure contains an example of a `spec:backupLocations` block that does not specify credentials. This example would trigger an OADP secret mounting.
```

====

> * If you need the backup location to have credentials with a different name than `cloud-credentials`, you must add a snapshot location, such as the one in the following example, that does not contain a credential name, meaning the snapshot location will use `cloud-credentials` as its secret for taking snapshots.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If you need the backup location to have credentials with a different name than `cloud-credentials`, you must add a snapshot location, such as the one in the following example that does not contain a credential name. Because the example does not contain a credential name, the snapshot location will use `cloud-credentials` as its secret for taking snapshots.
```

Or something--just to break it up.

Author: Good catch!

.Example snapshot location in a DPA without credentials specified
[source,yaml]
----
 snapshotLocations:
  - velero:
      config:
        profile: default
        region: <region>
      provider: aws
# ...
----

.Procedure
. Create an SSE-C encryption key:

> .. Generate a random number and output it as a file named `sse.key` by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ISG doesn't like "output" as a verb unless there is no better alternative.

Author: How about "save"?

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1 count=32 > sse.key
----

.. Encode the `sse.key` by using Base64 and output the result as a file named `sse_encoded.key` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat sse.key | base64 > sse_encoded.key
----

.. Link the file named `sse_encoded.key` to a file named `customer-key` by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ln -s sse_encoded.key customer-key
----

. Create an {product-title} secret:

> ** If you are initially installing and configuring {oadp-short}, you can create the AWS credential and encryption key secret at the same time by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** If you are initially installing and configuring {oadp-short}, create the AWS credential and encryption key secret at the same time by running the following command:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
spec:
  backupLocations:
    - velero:
        config:
          customerKeyEncryptionFile: /credentials/customer-key
          profile: default
# ...
----
+
[WARNING]
====
You must restart the Velero pod to remount the secret credentials properly on an existing installation.
====
+
The installation is complete, and you can back up and restore {product-title} resources. The data saved in AWS S3 storage is encrypted with the new key, and you cannot download it from the AWS S3 console or API without the additional encryption key.

.Verification

To verify that you cannot download the encrypted files without the inclusion of an additional key, create a test file, upload it, and then try to download it.

. Create a test file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ echo "encrypt me please" > test.txt
----
. Upload the test file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws s3api put-object \
  --bucket <bucket> \
  --key test.txt \
  --body test.txt \
  --sse-customer-key fileb://sse.key \
  --sse-customer-algorithm AES256
----

> .  Try to download the file. In either the Amazon web console or the terminal, run the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Try to download the file. In either the Amazon web console or the terminal, run the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ s3cmd get s3://<bucket>/test.txt test.txt
----
+
The download fails because the file is encrypted with an additional key.

. Download the file with the additional encryption key by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws s3api get-object \
    --bucket <bucket> \
    --key test.txt \
    --sse-customer-key fileb://sse.key \
    --sse-customer-algorithm AES256 \
    downloaded.txt
----

. Read the file contents by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat downloaded.txt

> encrypt me please

Reviewer 3: Oh, missed this. Since "encrypt me please" is really example output, that should be its own code block entitled "Example output".

* To make {oadp-short} mount a secret to the Velero pod at `/credentials`, use the following default secret name for AWS: `cloud-credentials`, and leave at least one of the following labels empty.

** `dpa.spec.backupLocations[].velero.credential`
** `dpa.spec.snapshotLocations[].velero.credential`
+
This is a workaround for a known issue: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3971.

[NOTE]
====
In the following procedure, there is an example of a `spec:backupLocations` block that does not specify credentials. This example would trigger an OADP secret mounting.
====

* If you need thd backup location to have credentials with a different name than `cloud-credentials`, you must add a snapshot location, such as the one in the following example, that does not contain a credential name, meaning the snapshot location will use `cloud-credentials` as its secret for taking snapshots.

.Example snapshot location in a DPA without credentials specified.
[source,yaml]
----
 snapshotLocations:
  - velero:
      config:
        profile: default
        region: <region>
      provider: aws
# ...
----

.Procedure
. Create an SSE-C encryption key by running the following commands:

> .. Generate a random number and output it as `see.key`.

Reviewer 4: sse.key

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1 count=32 > sse.key
----

> .. Concatenate `sse.key` using Base64 and output the result as `sse_encoded.key`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. Encode `sse.key` using Base64 and output the result as `sse_encoded.key`.
```

----
spec:
  backupLocations:
    - velero:
        config:
          customerKeyEncryptionFile: /credentials/customer-key
          profile: default
# ...
----
+
[WARNING]
====
You must restart the Velero pod to remount the secret credentials properly on an existing installation.
====
+
The installation is complete, and you can back up and restore {product-title} resources. The data saved in AWS S3 storage is encrypted with the new key, and you cannot download it from the AWS S3 console or API without the additional encryption key.

.Verification

To verify that you cannot download the encrypted files without the inclusion of an additional key, create a test file, upload it, and then try to download it.

. Create a test file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ echo "encrypt me please" > test.txt
----
. Upload the test file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws s3api put-object \
  --bucket <bucket> \
  --key test.txt \
  --body test.txt \
  --sse-customer-key fileb://sse.key \
  --sse-customer-algorithm AES256
----
.  Try to download the file. In either the Amazon web console or the terminal, run the following command:

> +

Reviewer 4: this '+' is visible in preview.

[source,terminal]
----
$ s3cmd get s3://<bucket>/test.txt test.txt
----
+
The download fails because the file is encrypted with an additional key.

. Download the file with the additional encryption key by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws s3api get-object \
    --bucket <bucket> \
    --key test.txt \
    --sse-customer-key fileb://sse.key \
    --sse-customer-algorithm AES256 \
    downloaded.txt
----
+
[NOTE]
====
You can run the same download call on the files backed up with Velero by running the following command:

[source,terminal]
----
$ aws s3api get-object \
  --bucket <bucket> \
  --key velero/backups/mysql-persistent-customerkeyencryptionfile4/mysql-persistent-customerkeyencryptionfile4.tar.gz \
  --sse-customer-key fileb://sse.key \
  --sse-customer-algorithm AES256 \
  --debug \
  velero_download.tar.gz
----
====

> . Read the file contents by running the following command:

Reviewer 4: This "Read the file" step should be above note. And note can be put at the last i believe.

You can store your own encryption keys by using server-side encryption with customer-provided keys (SSE-C). This feature provides additional security if your AWS credentials become exposed.

[WARNING]
====
Be sure to store cryptographic keys in a secure and safe manner. Encrypted data and backups cannot be recovered if you do not have the encryption key.
====

.Prerequisites

To use the SSE-C functionality of the `velero-plugin-for-aws` plugin, OADP must mount a secret that contains your SSE-C key.

* To make {oadp-short} mount a secret to the Velero pod at `/credentials`, use the following default secret name for AWS: `cloud-credentials`, and leave at least one of the following labels empty.

** `dpa.spec.backupLocations[].velero.credential`
** `dpa.spec.snapshotLocations[].velero.credential`
+
This is a workaround for a known issue: https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OADP-3971.

[NOTE]
====
In the following procedure, there is an example of a `spec:backupLocations` block that does not specify credentials. This example would trigger an OADP secret mounting.
====

> * If you need thd backup location to have credentials with a different name than `cloud-credentials`, you must add a snapshot location, such as the one in the following example, that does not contain a credential name, meaning the snapshot location will use `cloud-credentials` as its secret for taking snapshots.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* If you need the backup location to have credentials with a different name than `cloud-credentials`, you must add a snapshot location, such as the one in the following example, that does not contain a credential name, meaning the snapshot location will use `cloud-credentials` as its secret for taking snapshots.
```

.Example snapshot location in a DPA without credentials specified
[source,yaml]
----
 snapshotLocations:
  - velero:
      config:
        profile: default
        region: <region>
      provider: aws
# ...
----

.Procedure
. Create an SSE-C encryption key by running the following commands:

.. Generate a random number and output it as `sse.key`.
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ dd if=/dev/urandom bs=1 count=32 > sse.key
----

> .. Encode `sse.key` using Base64 and output the result as `sse_encoded.key`.

Reviewer 3: "`sse.key`" -> "the `.sse-key` file" or "the SSE key". 

"using" -> "by using" 

"`sse_encoded.key`" -> "a file `sse_encoded.key`" or "a file named `sse_encoded.key`"

Same for similar language throughout.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat sse.key | base64 > sse_encoded.key
----

> .. Link `sse_encoded.key` to `customer-key.`

Reviewer 3: These steps that lead into commands should end in colons rather than periods.

  --body test.txt \
  --sse-customer-key fileb://sse.key \
  --sse-customer-algorithm AES256
----
.  Try to download the file. In either the Amazon web console or the terminal, run the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ s3cmd get s3://<bucket>/test.txt test.txt
----
+
The download fails because the file is encrypted with an additional key.

. Download the file with the additional encryption key by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ aws s3api get-object \
    --bucket <bucket> \
    --key test.txt \
    --sse-customer-key fileb://sse.key \
    --sse-customer-algorithm AES256 \
    downloaded.txt
----

. Read the file contents by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ cat downloaded.txt
encrypt me please
----

+
[NOTE]
====
You can run the same download call on the files backed up with Velero by running the following command:

[source,terminal]
----
$ aws s3api get-object \
  --bucket <bucket> \
  --key velero/backups/mysql-persistent-customerkeyencryptionfile4/mysql-persistent-customerkeyencryptionfile4.tar.gz \
  --sse-customer-key fileb://sse.key \
  --sse-customer-algorithm AES256 \
  --debug \
  velero_download.tar.gz
----

> ====

Reviewer 3: Is it important to provide an alternative verification path by using this note? If it's really important, it could be its own module. If it's not particularly important, could it be omitted?
